So I am in a bookclub... kinda.

I sometimes read and show up, so not a consistent member.

But its a community that I am happy I am apart of.

The current book we/they/the club is reading is "The Essential Drucker" By Peter. F Drucker.

Its a book about management. I know we get WILD in bookclub.

Here is a quote from chapter 6:
> One is surely that organization has to be transparent. People
> have to know and have to understand the organization structure
> they are supposed to work in. This sounds obvious—but it is far
> too often violated in most institutions (even in the military).

So we asked ourselves: what does it mean for an organization to be transparent? What does that look like? Are we transparent in our club.

As strange or not as strange as this sounds, I think it all comes down to how an organization interacts with information.

1. For an organization to be certified Transparent, they need to have information easily available to their employees.

Available information needs to be documented and accessible to an employee.

For example: A "policy" send in an email before an individual joins an organization. This is not available information and I wouldn't really call documented either.

Think of this like a library. All employees get a library card, and they get to check out all the books there.

If information isn't organized and available, was it really there?

I think "easily" is the key word in the first requirement.

If an organization is hiding information, making it harder for an individual to access, it does not become easily available and therefor fails the first criteria.

2. For an organization to be certified Transparent, information needs to be sturdy/stable.

In general, information presented by the organization should change infrequently.

If information is frequently changing then it becomes turbulent information, not study/stable information.

Turbulent information, deceptive information, assumed information are the precursor to misinformation and lay the seeds to discourse in an organization.

Like an earthquake, discourse has magnitudes. In order to survive a high magnitude event, an organization needs to have its foundation built on stable/study information.

3. For an organization to be certified Transparent, there needs to be open to dialog.

Whether is explaining why a decision/policy/practice is in place, or having a new perspective shine light on something outdated; An organization needs to be open to talking.

In a dialog a few things can happen:

a) You and the other party agree to respectfully disagree. You both acknowledge and respect each other's point or view, but stand by your respective stances on a topic.

b) You convince the other party with facts, logic, or a sound reason of your stance.

c) You are convinced by the other party with facts, logic, or a sound reason of their stance.

d) You and the other party begrudgingly disagrees with each other. Both you and the other party are stubborn and wont recognize each other's stance on a topic.

There may be more, but I think following these three tenants of transparency is key for any organization.

Is your organization Transparent?

Stay Spicy.

1/26/22
